This is a RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) system (chatbot, dialogue system) that is designed to work locally on the user's computer and uses BgGPT (https://huggingface.co/INSAIT-Institute/BgGPT-Gemma-2-9B-IT-v1.0) by INSAIT as an LLM. BgGPT is based on Google Gemma 2 and is built specifically to improve the LLM's performance for the Bulgarian language.
Based on the VRAM available on the user's computer a suitable GGUF quantized version of the LLM is downloaded when the system is started for the first time. Also an embedding model is downloaded (BAAI/bge-m3BGE-M3) as well as a reranking model (jinaai/jina-reranker-v2-base-multilingual).
The user can upload their own text documents in the system and ask queries on them. The documents can be in Bulgarian or in English. 
The system also has a built-in database (main database) containing articles from the Bulgarian Wikipedia and crawled news articles from the Bulgarian news site Focus (https://www.focus-news.net/).
The retrieved relevant resources for a query will be displayed under the generated answer by the system. In the Log tab of the menu can be seen also the specific retrieved chunks.
The RAG system uses hybrid search (vector + keywords search) as its main search method, followed by reranking. 
The user can use also additional methods to improve the retrieval process in the system such as RAG Fusion, HyDE, Generated subqueries. Other metods available are Check relevant resources by LLM, Translate query for searching in documents in both Bulgarian and English and other useful features.
The menu of the system is available in Bulgarian and English. The Help tab can be used to understand how the system works and it also provides instructions how to use the user interface. The Import tab offers the user to import their own text documents (PDF, DOC, DOCX, TXT and JSON (for crawled sites, must have the columns 'id', 'url', 'title', 'text')).
The recommended VRAM is 12 GB, the minimum requirements is around 6-8 GB of VRAM. The RAM should be at least 16 GB. 
The system works on Windows 10. The user can download all required installation files from the latest release and then should run the installer (BG_RAG_1.0.0_windows_setup.exe) to install the system locally. 
If the system works really slowly or there is not enough available RAM on the user's computer or the user does not want to use the main database, the files "db_chunks_and_embeddings.pkl" and "faiss_vector_db.index" can be deleted in the "_internal" subfolder of the installation directory (by default the installation directory location is "C:\Program Files\BG RAG"). Doing so, the main database will not be available, but the system can still work with the files that the user has imported in the system by the 'Import' tab. 
Internet is required only for the first run of the system after the installation in order for the models used by the system to be downloaded.

